What is development?

According to the author, the development is the expanding of freedoms. It is more than about earning money. For example, people can have a greater travel freedom because of the development of transportation; from ancient times feudalism to modern day democracy, people are enjoying more political freedom; the development of medicine allows people to live longer, having more physical freedom. People desires development as it gives people more freedom of all kinds.

Is this an expansive or narrower view of the development?

It is an expensive view of the development. The narrower view will be the development of GNP, of the economics alone. However, the broader view of the environment includes more than that. It has many more aspects such as technology, mental, and physical. For example, citizens in Brazil and UAE may be richer than citizens of Sri Lanka and China due to a higher GNP per capita, the latter countries enjoy a higher life expectancy as the latter enjoy a greater degree of physical freedom. In order to pursue a more expansive form of development, comprehensive efforts are needed, and it is definitely more than money alone. 

What are some of the sources of unfreedoms development requires being removed?

Currently, Racism is one of the biggest sources of unfreedoms in the United States. For example, the colored people have fewer opportunities and lower incomes than white people. It creates a poverty trap that many are unable to escape. If we do not remove this stereotype from the bottom of people’s heart, the races will never be equally treated, and the colored communities cannot have the same development as the white communities. Health care is another large one as the poor are buried in debt and always in the process of repaying the accumulating owing.  Other sources of unfreedoms that restrains developments include gender inequality and education.

Why is free and sustainable agency a major engine of development?

Free and sustainable agency is a major engine of development because it provides opportunities. The author emphasized “adequate social opportunities.” Once the individuals are equipped with adequate opportunities, they will actively seek development by working and studying to improve their qualities of life. This type of individual development can also create a positive influence in the community, developing the society as a whole.

What does Amartya Sen say about being generically against markets?

Sen states that there is no reason to be generically against markets. To be generically against markets would be almost as odd as being generically against conversations of people. The market mechanism allows individuals to have economic opportunities and it contributes to the economy significantly.

What was the story of Kader Mia? What was the penalty of his economic unfreedom?

Kader Mia is a Muslim laborer who was stabbed to death in the Hindu city of Dhaka that is hostile to Muslims. He had to work in this dangerous place because he needed to feed his family. The penalty of his economic unfreedom is death, leaving only despair behind for his family. 

Who were Condorcet and Malthus? What were their primary arguments regarding development and fertility?

Condorcet is an 18-century French rationalist. He believed that fertility would decrease because people are rational enough to discover that a smaller population allows everyone enjoy more opportunities and greater freedom of education, economics, and so on. However, his contemporary Malthus’ idea differs radically, arguing there are no obstacles for people to marry early and bring more lives to the world. The debate remains even today. 
